DAY 1 — Launching browsers, Pytest fixtures, page vs context
Goal
Understand launching browsers from pytest, fixtures lifecycle, and difference between page and context.
Step-by-step practice
Read/skim Playwright fixture concept (locally): what browser, context, page represent.


Create the conftest.py above and run pytest -q to see fixture usage.


Make a simple test:

 def test_open_home(page):
    page.goto("https://playwright.dev")
    assert "Playwright" in page.title()


Experiment: open multiple pages in same context (simulate multiple tabs). Then create a new context for isolated cookies/storage.


Try launching headless vs headed and observe performance.


Exercises
Write tests that open two pages in same context and assert cookies are shared.


Write tests using two different contexts to show isolation.


18 Interview Qs (Day 1)
Q: What is Playwright?
 A: A browser automation library for Chromium/Firefox/WebKit supporting modern web features and cross-browser automation.


Q: What’s the difference between browser, context, and page?
 A: browser = the browser process; context = an isolated browser session (cookies, localStorage); page = a single tab/frame within a context.


Q: Why use multiple contexts?
 A: To isolate sessions (different users, different storage/cache); useful in parallel tests.


Q: When to reuse a context vs create a new one?
 A: Reuse for speed if tests can share state. Create new to avoid state bleed between tests.


Q: What is a Pytest fixture and why use it with Playwright?
 A: A fixture provides setup/teardown for tests (e.g., creating browser/page). It makes tests clean and reusable.


Q: What fixture scope options exist and when to use them?
 A: function, class, module, session — use session for expensive setup like browser launch in CI, function for isolated pages.


Q: How do you run Playwright tests headless?
 A: Launch the browser with headless=True or set env var. In pytest-playwright, set config or use CLI flags.


Q: How to capture console logs from a page?
 A: Listen to page.on("console", handler) and collect messages.


Q: What are advantages of new_context()?
 A: Fast session-level isolation without launching a new browser.


Q: Can you run tests in parallel?
 A: Yes with pytest-xdist and separate contexts (or playwright test runner). Ensure tests are isolated.


Q: What’s Playwright’s default timeout?
 A: Typically 30 seconds; adjustable via options like page.set_default_timeout().


Q: How to debug a failing test locally?
 A: Run headed (headless=False), add page.pause(), use playwright codegen, or add page.screenshot().


Q: What happens if you don’t close a context?
 A: Resource leak: browser may hold memory and cause flakiness or exhaustion.


Q: Why prefer contexts over separate browser instances?
 A: Contexts are lighter weight and faster to create than full browser processes.


Q: How do you persist storage across contexts?
 A: Use storage_state option to save and reuse cookies/localStorage.


Q: What is storage_state?
 A: JSON file with cookies and localStorage that can be used to create authenticated contexts.


Q: How to test file downloads in Playwright?
 A: Use page.expect_download() context manager and then download.path().


Q: What is the Playwright CLI playwright install for?
 A: Installs browser binaries required for automation.
